In this project we present a framework for the development of a portable Machine Learning model for vehicle and activity detection in mobile devices. From the developed system, a classification model based on a multi-layer perceptron network was designed and trained, using the mobile phone accelerometer data. With this implementation, the application can detect in real-time the vehicle mode (bus, scooter, or bike) or activity (walking or running) using the extracted frequencies from the accelerometer data. To obtain a better performance, we also present an efficient data processing algorithm, as well as the use of different data collection techniques. The results obtained with a limited data set shows the efficacy of the methods used in the machine learning development, resulting in models with over 95% of accuracy. At last, the project provides an Android application, with two distinct modes, to collect accelerometer data for training and to test the deployed model in a monitoring mode.


Get-My-Vehicle is a system that detects the how the user is moving. The system has been designed to have a low battery consume since only relies on the use of accelerometer sensor, with a good time response. The application is trained to be able to detect motorized (bus, scooter) and not motorized vehicles (walk, run, bike). To have a better data optimization we remove noise using the FFT algorithm which increase the accuracy of our model. Also, we have train different models using different overlap percentages to improve accuracy,
